When logging in as hod, to enter their respective dept, the should must: 
  1. select their department (Eg: department of computer science, dept of aiml, dept of Computer applications etc)
  2. select the program type- undergraduate (eg: B.sc computer science)/ postgraduate (eg: M.sc Computer Science)
  3. select the semester type - Odd/ even. for your information, odd semesters include- semester1, 3, 5,etc.. even semester include- 2, 4, 6,etc..
2. after choosing these, the hod enters their dept workspace
3. now, the hod's screen should contain the following: The hod login structure:
For this let's say the HOD selects the department of computer science, selects Undergraduate and selects the semester type as odd semester and after entering the work space,  for an eg  if the HOD enters into the dept of computer science, undergraduate ( eg. B sc computer Science),  and odd semester, the home screen of hod should be welcoming and here the HOD should have the clarity of where they actually are so it should be boldly defined with the department name, the semester type  and the program type they have chosen and everything else. and if they have selected the odd semester type, then "all" the odd semesters such as  semester 1, semester 3 and semester 5 ..... Etc should be populated in the screen with their respective data. That is when i click at one semester (for eg, semester 1), that semester should direct to the following respective pages ( they should exist like 3 menus) such as→ 1).subject preference management of faculty, 2)workload allocation of faculty should be shown, 3) Class wise matrix. And the respective pages should be designed such that:
1. The hod enters the preference management and reviews each of all the faculty's preferences  of their department, if a faculty's submission gets shown , all of the faculty's details such as - faculty name, faculty designation , faculty id when the hod clicks a faculty's preference, they should be able to view all the details, the hod should be able to decide the workload allocation - I mean the hod reviews the subjects they have preferred, where all the subject details such as name of the subject, subject code, subject category (Eg. Core/ elective / minority/ multi disciplinary etc..) and they should be able to choose to allocate each of the preferred subjects/ leave it as such, and even offer a subject the faculty didn't prefer, then the hod should be able to manually allocate the subject's theory and practical hours,allocate the class and section the faculty should be handling and the faculty's role in that subject handling ( as an main incharge/ assist incharge) and after allocating all of the targets, the hod clicks submit allocation button and that respective faculty's workload should be submitted successfully in the workload allocation / Workload details page,  with all the faculty's details and their workload data as mentioned above. This should be followed for each and every Faculty displayed , with a perfect ui screen maintained. This screen should contain a finalize workload button at the bottom, and the button should be enabled only if all the faculty have been allocated with their workload successfully. After the allocation is finalized, there should be a continue to Workload details button which directs to the Workload details page. In this page, on top of thepag3 ,the hod should be able to view the following details:-  Number of faculty submitted their preferences → when i click this, the hod should be able to view those faculty and their details , etc.. and → No. Of faculty pending → should show the pending faculty who haven't submitted the subject preferences yet.
3. All the essential tasks should have drop-downs with all the essential data populated, making it easy for the user to choose from.
4. There should be editable options for all the actions/ tasks, making it user friendly and a flexible ERP where the user can edit, access, modify the data as per their wish.
5.  there should be a spherical chart that gets fulfilled whenever an allocation is done, if the allocation is done for all  the faculty, the sphere chart should get 100% fulfilled.

2. In the Workload details page, all the submitted data should be displayed neatly, in a matrix, containing data of each of the faculty, with all the essential data , and a perfect ui screen should be maintained. and  This should be followed for any semester the hod chooses, and this workflow is the same for even the semester also .
3. The class wise matrix page→ shows the matrix on how each faculty are allocated for each subjects and each classes in the department. Refer the reference documents to build the class wise matrix, where these matrices get tabulated automatically whenever a faculty is assigned with their workload successfully.
4. Overall, this hod login should be user friendly, with all the sidebars directing to all the pages, go back (go back to the previous page) options , edit, save options wherever necessary and the goal is to achieve direct access for all data for the hod instead of going to so many different pages.
4. Make sure that the following instructions are followed:
            1. The ui/ux should be user friendly, welcoming and should be containing visible and defined fonts.
            2. For this hod login, the sidebars should contain: 1).home page→ where all the semesters of the selected semester type are shown. 2) the All semesters page→ displays the data for all the semesters with their respective semester numbers , for each of the semester ,just like how it does in the home page. 3). Workload viewer page → to have a  quick view of the workloads generated  for all the semesters respectively for each semester in that particular semester type. If the workload is not generated for a semester, just display no Workload generated yet.

for the faculty's login:
The Faculty login structure:
The faculty also follows the same method of login , and enters their login just like the hod (selects dept, program type, semester type). And then, the following pages should be present:
1. Home page- a welcoming home page for faculty, which also states where they actually are → the department name, the program type and semester type and all the essential data to be shown. In the same page, the faculty should be able to  view the following: 1).if they have selected the semester type as odd then, "all" the odd semesters such as  semester 1, semester 3 and semester 5 ..... Etc should be present there respectively populated on the screen with their respective data → where each semester contains the subjects list, the subject category ( eg. Core/ Elective/Minority/Multidisciplinary, etc.. )and the subject code published for each semester , from there they should be able to choose the subjects and submit the subject preferences to that respective department's hod. The faculty should be able to edit, modify and save their preferences in each of the respective semesters available in the selected semester type. And in each semester, All their preferences should be reflected in the hod's login and are to be submitted to the hod successfully. Then, the hod reviews those preferences of each faculty and finalizes the faculty's subject Allocation and then the finalized allocation of the faculty should get displayed as "my subjects " for each of the faculty in their respective logins for each of the semesters for the selected semester type.

just like the hod login, the ui should be defined, user friendly, interactive and informative.

important instructions: 1. the above are the detailed instructions to be followed and requirements i have mentioned are to be fulfilled while following the user flow structure for both the respective roles- The hod and the faculty.
2. expected outcomes- fully built and working erp with all the mentioned functionalites properly working, in the mentioned flow, build a professional and dynamic ERP such that it is flexible to accept additional implementations/modifications in future, without affecting the overall architecture of the erp.
3. Do's and dont's : 1. Do follow all the instructions, understand the workflow of each user based roles, and construct the erp accordingly with beautifully developed frontend, backend and database. 2. Do not build non working and invalid/ logically incorrect pages, the whole ERP should be directed in such way that no page returns a no page found error, request failed error, or an internal server error, every step taken in building the erp should be carried with serious clarity and proper functionality.
3. Do work only in the building process of workload phase, i have not given any instructions to move forward to the timetable phase. the reference document contains the data of timetable phase also, but do not start to build the timetable phase until i order to proceed; build the workload phase successfully, and after reviewing it, we will move forward to timetable phase.
4. do refer the files in the reference folder, while following my instructions carefully. do ask open questions when you need to. do not perform an incomplete or fragile implementation, do not compromise in the quality of construction. add the logo picture of srm i have provided in the top left corner of the erp.


I need you to create a PRD (project resource document) of the Workload and Timetable Portal that is to be dynamic, interactive and editable. also, provide a "how to" manual/guide to guide the hod/ faculty/other user to walkthrough the erp. get the PRD and "How to" doc.

how to use my data: Ensure the erp works with contextual and data-driven approach. now, i need to create this erp for the following departments, i will be adding more departments and more data in the future. for now, the erp should handle the following departments details:1. Dept of B.sc  Computer science  ( undergraduate)
2. Dept of BCA Data Science ( undergraduate)
3. Dept of MCA and MCA GEN AI ( postgraduate)
4. Department of BCA gen ai( undergraduate)
5. Dept of M.sc Computer Science ( postgraduate)
6. Dept of M.Sc AIML ( postgraduate)
7. Department of B.sc AIML ( undergraduate)
i have provided with faculty details, the spreadsheets that represent the human made excels for workload, class wise matrix , subjects for each semester etc.. there can be some data absent for the departments, so create dummy data details if necessary , we can replace things with original data later, but make sure the infrastructure works robust, logically correct, clear and works according to the user workflow, and  the dropdowns should be populated with necessary data in cases where selection is necessary , from the beginning of the erp to each and every pages accordingly.
